okay let's talk about the pixel 5 and
the pixel 4a
5g these are two new devices that are
being launched by google shortly
but i was sent two metal blanks one for
the
pixel 5 one for the pixel for a 5g and i
was told that these are
most assuredly exact to the shape and
size
of the actual devices these are used to
make like cases and accessories for the
phones uh so i'm inclined to believe it
but
this you know what let's just get right
into it the physical shape
and stuff because i noticed a couple
things i wanted to talk about
so the pixel 5 is very
similar in shape and size to the pixel 4
from last year it's actually
slightly shorter than the pixel 4. it's
got the same kind of button
configuration on the right so sleep wake
up top and then your volume rocker
underneath that and up top there's no
headphone jack or anything it's got the
same kind of microphone cut out
and then on the left uh well you got
your sim tray obviously
and then on the bottom same kind of
cutouts so two speaker
type cutouts and then a usbc but on the
back is where you'll notice the biggest
differences
the pixel 5 has a rear mounted
fingerprint sensor again it's something
that was removed from the pixel 4 where
they depended on
facial recognition up front for logins
but they've implemented it again and
this is something i've always enjoyed
i've always liked the position and the
speed and the reliability of a rear
mounted fingerprint sensor
i like it the other thing i noticed and
this is a bit strange
is that the curvature on the back of
this
metal blank phone is very similar to the
curvature on the pixel 4a
and this is a plastic-backed phone but
this type of curvature is actually quite
difficult to do on a glass
and aluminum frame phone right normally
to get this type of curvature
you need to use plastic so i don't think
that the pixel 5 is going to be
a glass and metal phone i think it's
gonna be a plastic phone just like the
pixel 4a
uh so we'll get into the internals and
pricing in a little bit but just keep
that in mind the whole concept of a
well a cheaper material cheaper as in
cost
right cheaper materials to make the
pixel 5 compared to the pixel 4 from
last year
now under the 4a 5g this is very similar
in design aesthetic to the i mean all
three of these right the
5 the 4a5g and the 4a so this
is a big phone this is larger than the
pixel 4
and the 4a the sides on the bottom don't
have any surprises but the top
has a headphone jack not that it's a
surprise but i'm glad that it's still
there
just like the 4a so the two kind of
mid-range phones from google this year
will have
headphone jacks as far as i'm concerned
now i want to talk with the internals
because i feel like this is where a more
important conversation
is to be had so let's talk about the
pixel 5 first this
is reportedly running a snapdragon
765g a 5g capable chip
from qualcomm and this was controversial
this is a chip
that is not super high end right it's
not an 800 series
snapdragon and because it's kind of
mid-range or like upper mid-range
it's been it's it's a it's a weird
message right pixels have normally been
synonymous with
high prices and relatively high-end
internals they've always run
800 series chips in the pixels so this
is
different and i think that this is a
really really smart move
so here's the thing ever since pixels
have been
ever since they've existed right the
whole purpose of pixel's
lineup the whole reason why this product
line even exists
is to make money it's to make google
money right there
pixels aren't here to bring world peace
or anything like that they're they're
here to make as much money for google
as possible and if you think if you just
rewind time a little bit think about the
nexus phones
those phones were amazing i love them
you guys probably love them the whole
tech community
loved nexus phones they were inexpensive
they were really good
and they just they were like enthusiast
focused phones
that a lot of people could get behind
the thing is that whole nexus line just
didn't make money
it didn't make money it didn't make
enough money for google to keep it
around if it did we'd be looking at
nexus phones
today but clearly nexus phones weren't
profitable enough the whole nexus line
wasn't profitable enough
so they moved on to pixels and for the
past three or four years google's been
trying to make money
with pixels every year there's like a
slight variation in their strategy
but it's usually not particularly
effective
and now i think this is google's whole
new shift their whole lineup right now
look at the 4a the 4a5g and the 5.
all three of these phones are going to
be not super premium
not super expensive but they're kind of
targeting something that's
it's different there's so many phones
out there with snapdragon 865s a half
dozen of the major brands that they're
putting these
flagship phones with top-end 800 series
chips
every single year and for google it's
like why do you want to compete with
that like why do you want to put these
phones out there
and compete with these chinese brands
that are put like they're putting out
like
300 phones 200 phones that have crazy
powerful chipsets in them right they got
ads and crap in them but
they're doing it in a way that makes it
very difficult
for google to make a compelling product
so i think this
is a much smarter move you make stuff
that's just a little bit different
and the focus is on their software and
their cameras
but that is what pixels should be known
for going forward not trying to match
you know hardware specs with everyone
else with their snapdragon 800 series
stuff it's super competitive in that
space
let them fight it out focus on what
you're good at which is software
and i think that is what they're going
to go for in the near future and i
really like what they're doing
now the screens on these two devices
look to have a single
hole punch camera so just like the pixel
4a but the pixel 5 because it
only has that single hole punch camera
looks like it's going to lose projects
solely like the radar tech
it's slightly disappointing because i
feel like it was kind of neat but at the
same time it's
to be expected if they're gonna go with
this type of trajectory this path of
you know focusing on the important stuff
and pricing your stuff at a reasonable
price point
i think it's got to shed stuff like
project solely
okay pricing so we know that the pixel
4a
5g i think google's come out and saying
that this thing is a 499
phone and the pixel 5 is supposed to be
coming between six
and seven hundred dollars so my guess is
right in the middle
650 bucks and this is both of them with
120 gigs of storage
so here's the thing as i sit here doing
this video
i feel like mid-range chipsets are
are smart they're so much smarter than
trying to compete
with everyone else at least for google
but that's just me
i i like this stuff i like to see
mid-range stuff and i don't really
need super expensive chip sets i don't
feel like it's something that i've ever
really taken advantage of
but what do you guys think like when you
look at these phones when you look at
what google's offering
now is this what you like like do you
want
this direction for google or do you wish
that their pixel line went
you know do you want them to have
flagship stuff at more expensive pricing
but maybe done better than they have in
the past
okay let me know in the comments below
hope you guys enjoyed this video thumbs
if you liked it
subs if you loved it i'll see you guys
next time
[Music]
you